---
title: BIDS launches Open Source Program Office
authors: ["Jarrod Millman"]
date: 2024-04-30
summary: |
  UC Berkeley Joins Multi-Campus Effort Supported by $1.85 Million Grant from
  Alfred P. Sloan Foundation to Advance Open Source Initiatives Across UC System
---

The Berkeley Institute for Data Science (BIDS) at the University of California,
Berkeley, proudly announces its participation in a multi-campus effort aimed at
advancing open source initiatives throughout the UC system. This collaborative
endeavor, made possible by a $1.85 million grant from the Alfred P. Sloan
Foundation, underscores UC Berkeley's commitment to promoting open source
principles and fostering collaboration across disciplines. Led by UC Santa
Cruz, with UC Berkeley, UC Davis, UC Los Angeles, UC San Diego, and UC Santa
Barbara as partner campuses, the initiative marks a significant step toward
establishing a robust open source ecosystem within the UC system. As part of
this collaborative effort, UC Berkeley will launch an Open Source Program
Office (OSPO), housed at BIDS, that will be part of a coordinated network of
OSPOs across the UC campuses in this collaboration, joining a growing community
of OSPOs at other institutions. These funds will primarily support scoping
activities, campus outreach, and fundraising efforts, with the goal of
establishing a fully functioning UC Berkeley OSPO within the UC-wide network by
the end of the grant period.

Statistics Professor Fernando Pérez, faculty Director of BIDS, alongside Co-PI
Stéfan van der Walt, Assistant Researcher at BIDS, are pivotal figures in the
field of open source software development. Fernando is the creator of IPython
and co-founder of Project Jupyter, while Stéfan is the founder of scikit-image.
Both are widely recognized for their contributions and regularly write and
speak about open source scientific software. Fernando Pérez, in his role as
Director of BIDS, envisions BIDS as a home for open source, open science, and
open scholarship. "BIDS will serve as an interdisciplinary community hub where
computing, data, science, and society intersect," said Pérez. "We are excited
to collaborate with our UC partners to build a robust open source ecosystem
within the UC system." Stéfan van der Walt brings extensive expertise in open
source software development and community building to UC Berkeley's OSPO.
Together, they will play key roles in shaping the direction and coordination of
UC Berkeley's involvement in the initiative.

Working closely with PI Pérez and Co-PI van der Walt, Jarrod Millman, Senior
Open Source Scientific Python Developer, will lead UC Berkeley's efforts in the
multi-campus initiative. Leveraging his expertise and experience, Jarrod will
spearhead the establishment of the UC Berkeley OSPO, ensuring alignment with
the vision of the lead campus and all collaborating campuses. He will actively
participate in leadership group meetings, lead on-campus efforts to establish
OSPO structures, represent UC Berkeley in relevant in-person events, provide
valuable input, and contribute to reporting on the network's activities.
Throughout the grant period, Jarrod's focus will be on identifying campus
resources and needs in the open source space, raising funds to staff the UC
Berkeley OSPO, and serving as its initial director. "UC Berkeley is honored to
participate in this groundbreaking project in collaboration with our UC
partners," said Jarrod Millman. "This grant will enable us to harness the
collective expertise of multiple campuses to build a robust UC-wide open source
ecosystem."

As the initiative progresses, UC Berkeley anticipates making further
announcements in the fall following initial planning and scoping activities
over the summer. During this time, the team will launch a new campus website
dedicated to open source initiatives, establish a presence on social media
platforms, create a group mailing list for stakeholders, and undertake other
outreach efforts. Additionally, the team plans to host a campus event focused
on open source, featuring invited guests and speakers from academia, industry,
and the open source community. This event will provide an opportunity for
stakeholders to engage with UC Berkeley's OSPO and learn more about the
university's commitment to open source principles and collaboration.

For more information on the UC OSPO Network and upcoming open source
activities, please see the UCSC Press Announcement. To learn more about open
source activities on campus, please visit the BIDS website and follow us on X
(formerly Twitter).
